
  CQP/Perl Web Demo  --  Installation Instructions


1. Prerequisites

  - a web server :o)
  - a recent version of the IMS Corpus Workbench
  - all CWB/Perl modules (installed globally, i.e. they must be
    accessible without specifying additional search paths)
  - the CWB demo corpus (DICKENS), 
    preferably installed in the global corpus registry


2. Installation

This installation guide assumes that you are familiar with your web
server and its directory layout. If you do not know how to publish a
web page or install CGI scripts on the server, please read the
relevant manuals before continuing with the installation.

The document tree of a web server is usually subdivided into two
separate parts, one for HTML documents (.../htdocs/ in Apache) and the
other for executable CGI scripts (.../cgi-bin/ in Apache). First of
all, you need to identify these directory trees and create a new
directory for CQPDemo files in each tree. These new directories are
referred to as <DATA> and <CGI> below. A possible choice on Apache
servers would be:

  <DATA> = .../htdocs/CWB/CQPDemo
  <CGI>  = .../cgi-bin/CWB/CQPDemo

Make sure that the new directories are world-readable (using the
command "chmod go+rx ..."), as the web server will not be able to
access them otherwise.

Copy all files in html/ and its subdirectories to the <DATA>
directory. Then copy all files in cgi-bin/ and its subdirectory to the
<CGI> directory.  Again, make sure that the files are world-readable
("chmod go+r ...") and that the CGI scripts (with extension ".pl") are
also executable ("chmod go+x ...").

  cp -pR html/* <DATA>
  cp -pR cgi-bin/* <CGI>


3. Configuration

When you have installed the data files and CGI scripts, you need to
configure CQPDemo, inserting the local URL paths corresponding to the
chosen data and CGI directories. These local URLs usually consist of
the last segments of the <DATA> and <CGI> paths, and are referred to
by <DATAURL> and <CGIURL> below. In the Apache example above, the
local URLs would be

  <DATAURL> = /CWB/CQPDemo
  <CGIURL>  = /cgi-bin/CWB/CQPDemo

Please consult the documentation of your web server to find out how
the directory paths <DATA> and <CGI> map to local URLs.

Now you need to insert <CGIURL> into the following HTML files,
replacing the text "/EDIT/THIS/PATH" as indicated by short comments in
the files.

  <DATA>/frames-cqp.html
  <DATA>/frames-simple.html
  <DATA>/frames-tools.html

You also have to insert <DATAURL> in the configuration module for the
CGI scripts:

   <CGI>/My/Config.pm

If necessary, you may adjust other configuration settings in this
file. For instance, if the demo corpus DICKENS is not installed in the
global corpus registry (/corpora/c1/registry), set the variable
$Registry to the correct registry directory. You can also change the
location and size of the cache directory for query results, and the
maximum number of matches. In most cases, it is ok just to accept the
defaults. 

Finally, you may need insert the path to your Perl interpreter in the
"shebang" (#!) line of the CGI scripts (with extension ".pl" in the
<CGI> directory. If you have multiple versions of Perl on your
machine, make sure to select one for which the CWB/Perl modules are
installed.


4. Giving it a try

You should now be able to access CQPDemo on your web server under the
local path <DATAURL>. In the Apache example above, type the URL

  http://MY.WEB.SERVER/CWB/CQPDemo/

into your web browser. If this test doesn't work for some reason,
please have a look at the server's error logs, which should help you
to find the source of the problem.


5. Modifying CQPDemo

You are welcome to use CQPDemo as a web interface to your own corpora,
making any desired modifications to the scripts and HTML pages. You
can simply change the configuration variable $Corpus in
<CGI>/My/Config.pm, but you will almost certainly have to adjust
various hard-coded settings in the scripts and modules to reflect the
different structure and annotation of your corpora.  See the file
"ARCHITECTURE" for a brief overview of the CQPDemo architecture. 


6. Copyright Notice and License

This software is provided AS IS and the author makes no warranty as to
its use and performance. You may use the software, redistribute and
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

IN NO EVENT WILL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR SPECIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY LOST PROFITS OR LOST
SAVINGS, EVEN IF AN IMS REPRESENTATIVE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY CLAIM BY ANY THIRD PARTY.

Copyright (C) 2003-2004 by Stefan Evert.
